# An Efficient Deep Learning Algorithm For COVID-19 Pneumonia Detection Using Chest Radiography Imaging
### Abstract
The COVID-19 outbreak has placed a tremendous strain on the already overburdened public health services, filling them to the brim. COVID-19 can infect the lungs through the respiratory system, resulting in a range of complications, including pneumonia. However, it is challenging for a radiologist to distinguish COVID-19 pneumonia from other viral or bacterial pneumonia. Additionally, due to the high infection rate of the COVID-19 virus, the number of patients requiring a CXR examination is growing. Therefore, healthcare professionals would benefit from a rapid and automated approach to diagnosing COVID-19 pneumonia cases. This study proposed a lightweight yet effective neural network algorithm to detect COVID-19 and discriminate it from other viral or bacterial pneumonia using CXR images enhanced with the CLAHE technique. Transfer learning was adopted to train the neural network using the pre-trained EfficientNetV2 model to reduce the computational cost. This study also demonstrated the use of random oversampling and data augmentation techniques to address the class imbalance problem and increase the number of samples in the training set. The results demonstrated that the neural network performed exceptionally well and was able to generalize effectively to unseen data. The neural network obtained 97.3% on all four evaluation metrics, namely accuracy, precision, recall, and f1-score. Furthermore, the neural network outperformed other neural network architectures with greater sizes and more learning parameters. The promising results imply that it may benefit healthcare professionals in COVID-19 diagnosis in order to contain the outbreak and give the most effective treatment for affected individuals.
